# AWS DVA-C02 (AWS Certified Developer - Associate)

Key insight: Staying on schedule requires strict timeboxing. If you do not finish a concept in Hour 1, move on to the hands-on portion anyway—often, seeing the infrastructure in the console will clarify what the documentation could not.

---

## Domain Resources

### DOMAIN 1

#### Review (45m)

##### Lesson 1: Domain 1 introduction (4m 33s)

"""
Welcome back, we are starting off with Domain 1 covering development. This domain covers 32% of the exam content, so you can expect about 20 questions involving development. This domain covers everything from developing code for applications hosted on AWS, developing code for AWS Lambda, and using data stores in your application development  Developers are builders that must rapidly deploy their infrastructure and your code to ensure customers can access your application immediately. But to deploy your code and infrastructure needed for your application, you have to ensure you build a working application that responds to increasing expectations and scales with your demand. Developers focus on the core functionality of building, maintaining, and innovating highly-available applications. Domain 1: Development with AWS Services is broken into 3 task statements that we will discuss over the next few lessons.  Task statement 1.1: Develop code for applications hosted on AWS, Task Statement 1.2: Develop code for AWS Lambda, and Task Statement 1.3: Use data stores in application development.For the first task statement, development includes the configurations and use of SDKs, API credentials, keys, identities to run applications on Amazon EC2 instances, customizing the network, managing your resources, and developing applications. Ensure you know how to write code for applications with different architectural patterns, such as event-driven, microservices, choreography, orchestration, and fanout. And also, how to write code for fault-tolerant design patterns too, such as retries with exponential backoff and jitter and dead-letter queues.  You will need knowledge of creating, extending, and maintaining APIs and understanding API actions with different AWS services, such as Amazon API Gateway, AWS Lambda, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon S3, and Amazon SQS. Ensure you have an understanding of method requests, method responses, integration requests, integration responses, enforcing validation rules, overriding status codes, mapping templates, stage, variables, caches, throttling, and so on. This should include the design, development, and use cases for AWS serverless services including design patterns and micro services design patterns too.  For the DVA-C02 exam you should know how to code, which is different from the C01 version. The exam does not test on specific languages because AWS supports all candidates with depth in different languages, but you should know coding best practices and error handling too.  This new version will require you to dive deeper into developing code for AWS Lambda. For the second task statement, ensure you can configure Lambda functions by defining environment variables and configuration parameters such as, memory, concurrency, time-out, runtime, handler, layers, extensions, triggers, and destinations. For the third task statement, dive deeper into the AWS Storage options with a specific focus on requirements and use cases for data stores in application development. Ensure you understand how to use, manage, and maintain data stores and manage data lifecycles. Know the different data caching services, caching strategies, ephemeral and persistent data storage patterns, and database consistency models and when to use each. Ensure you know how to choose the correct database service for your requirements or migrations and how to configure the encryption to ensure your data is safe which will be covered more in Domain 2: Security.  Over the next several videos in this first module, I will address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful. Refer to the exam guide to follow along. Let's start to evaluate your readiness for the exam in the next video where we will cover the first task statement from Domain 1: Task statement 1.1: Develop code for applications hosted on AWS.
"""

##### Lesson 2: Develop code for applications hosted on AWS (17m 50s)

"""
Let's begin with the first task statement from Domain 1: develop code for applications hosted in AWS. I wanna start off with recommending a deep dive into the AWS Well-Architected Framework and the six pillars. A main pillar of focus for the developing code for applications in AWS is the operational excellence pillar. You need to understand how to support development and run workloads effectively, gain insights into their operations, and to continuously improve supporting processes and procedures to deliver business value. For example, in AWS, you can apply the same discipline that you use for your application code to the entire environment including the automation of execution by using events to trigger the deployment, along with sharing across teams or organizations to magnify the benefits of development efforts. Application development on AWS gives you the ability to safely experiment to develop your workload, your operation procedures, and practice failure. Dive deeper into AWS CloudFormation and the AWS Serverless Application Model. Let's move on and talk about design patterns. What architectural patterns do you write code for? First you have to understand the workload and the expected behaviors. Then you can design and build the applications along with insights for added visibility to the state and procedures to support. Here are a few questions to consider. How will your application be accessed? What are the usage patterns? Do you need to manage any hardware? What are your development and deployment patterns? How does your application work? And do you know how to develop, design, and implement code for an event-driven architecture? Event-driven designs help to decouple your services, and for this exam, you need to know the difference between tightly-coupled and loosely-coupled components. Event-driven designs promote the use of microservices and most AWS services generate events and many of the services can act as an event source. For example, AWS Lambda. We'll dive deeper into developing code from Lambda in our next lesson, but back to event-driven designs for your code. This can help to add scalable, resilient, agile, and cost-effective solutions. You can take this further and use AWS serverless services such as Amazon SQS, SNS, EventBridge to code and build event-driven applications. But there are trade-offs to consider too. Unlike monolithic applications that process everything within the same memory on a single device, event-driven applications communicate across networks. When you have microservices, you get the benefit of having the parts fail independently and you can write your application code to handle the failures. And it is best practice to code applications to handle component failures. Your application code should include failure detection and automatic remediation, so maybe you choose to use exponential back off with jitter. What does this technique increase for your application? Well, it increases the reliability and it also reduces operational costs, but it's not always safe to retry because that retry could increase the load on an already overloaded system. So what could you try instead? Instead of retrying immediately, you could use exponential backoff, which uses longer wait times and then vice versa. If backoff retries are still happening, use jitter because backoff retries can add to the overload and cause contention. What about message failures? What do you add to your application code to handle message failures, including destinations and dead-letter queues? You can use Lambda to send invocations to other services like SQS, EventBridge, or SNS. You could also use AWS Step Functions to separate retries, backoff rates, max attempts, intervals, and timeouts. The point is to code and build resilience into your applications and workloads to withstand failures across components. Diving deeper, many applications use the event-driven architectures to manage the complexity of the components in system integrations. Understand how to use Step Functions instead of directly invoking systems to perform your task. You can also use Step Functions to monitor a workflow design. Let's continue on and talk about orchestration. Workflows that involve branching logic, different types of failure models, and retries usually use an orchestrator to help keep track of the state and overall execution. You can use Lambda or implement messaging patterns to help orchestrate workflows in your application, but as your functions become more complex, you can migrate the logic to a state machine and Step Functions instead. Step Functions can also be used to orchestrate workflows and can handle nested workflow logic, errors, and retries. A key point and reason you need to dive deeper into different AWS services you could use is, for example, Step Functions workflows can run up to 1 year and can maintain different versions, which helps you to upgrade your code and requires less custom code. But if you need to coordinate state changes across multiple services, Amazon EventBridge might be a better choice. Let's also cover a fanout scenario. If your application needs to publish messages to multiple endpoints, such as SQS, Data Firehose, HTTPS endpoints, or Lambda functions, you can use a fanout pattern. Know how to use fanout to replicate data sent to your production with your test environment to improve and test your application using that data received. What if you need to prevent duplicated, inconsistent, or loss of data? Well, you have to design the code to properly validate input messages, calls, events, and so on, and identify if events were processed. You can add idempotent function logic to Lambda to reduce unnecessary API calls, code processing time, data inconsistency, throttle, and latency. Know how to ensure the original API requests complete successfully and that subsequent retries will have no additional effect. Also, dive deep and understand the differences between synchronous and asynchronous patterns, and understand that replication for AWS services. Since applications generate messages in the forms of calls to functions, services, and APIs, the communication can affect the performance, resources, and execution of tasks for the application. Here are a few questions to consider. What type of workflows can you use in Step Functions: asynchronous workflows or synchronous workflows? It's actually both. What if you use a REST API? Well, they are usually designed with synchronous communications where the response is required. What if a service crashes while synchronous processing is happening? Well, that information is usually lost, but you can add code to your design to explicitly persist an incoming message after receiving it. What could you use for this? Well, one solution is SQS because SQS messages can be retained. What about stateless and stateful designs? Both store state from client request on the server and use that state to process other requests. Both use the database as a backend and the session is stored on the server. But stateful applications do not make a call to the database on that second request, which increases performance. Know how each scales. What about stateless and stateful applications using containers? Usually containers are stateless and add scalability and high availability because container orchestration and load balancing can add instances as demand increases. For the exam, understand the scalability requirements and the requirements for the application or scenario questions and be able to choose the best design. For example, if you are building a new Docker application using ECS and you need to allow containers to access ports on the host container instance to send and receive traffic using port mapping, which component of ECS should you configure to implement this task? The container agent, the container instance, the task definition, or the agent? For this exam, you will need depth into the AWS services to answer questions like this. Port mappings are part of the container definition and are configured in the task definition. Let's dive into more AWS specifics. You can code and control your infrastructure whether you're developing your application in AWS or orchestrating resources for your application in AWS. Dive deeper into the AWS SDKs. Understand how using SDKs to integrate applications with AWS APIs reduces the complexity of authentication, retries, error handling, and more. Also ensure you're familiar with the code examples provided by the SDK or the service. And understand how to write code that interacts with AWS services by using APIs and AWS SDKs. What AWS service could you use for developing and building serverless applications along with the toolkits we just mentioned? How about the AWS Serverless Application Model? But I would also dive deeper into microservices design patterns using Amazon ECS, Lambda, Cognito, API Gateway, CloudFront, Amazon DynamoDB, and S3. Let's say you're a developer and your organization is migrating to AWS. As part of the migration, you have been tasked to build a new serverless architecture that will share memory and timeouts between the resources, such as Lambda, API Gateway, and DynamoDB, and also deploy all resources in a single-versioned application. Which AWS service would you use: CloudFormation, OpsWorks, Elastic Beanstalk, or the Serverless Application Model? CloudFormation would work, but SAM simplifies the deployment and provides a simplified way of defining the API Gateway APIs, the Lambda functions, and DynamoDB tables needed by your serverless application. What service can help you create, publish, extend, maintain, and monitor your APIs? Ensure you have the depth needed for API Gateway. It features heavily throughout this exam. For example, know how to override status codes, enforce validation rules, and response transformations. Ensure you know and understand method requests and responses, integration requests and responses, mapping templates, stages and stage variables, caches, and throttling for API Gateway. And also understand usage plans and API keys. What if you designed an online school application to use API Gateway with a non-proxy Lambda integration, and you now have to expose a GET method on a new course resource to invoke the Lambda function, which would allow users to grab a list of online courses, but the user must include a query string parameter in the request to get the data in online courses? Do you configure a method request or method response of the resource? You would need to configure the method request and it would need the required query parameter to process. How would you handle data streaming with your application code or design? In AWS, you can use managed streaming data services like Kinesis, or deploy and manage your own streaming data on Amazon EC2. Ensure you understand the challenges of adding streaming data to your application, such as the requirement for layers for storage and processing, and you have to plan for scalability, data durability, and fault tolerance in both layers. AWS also provides other platforms with the needed infrastructure to build streaming data applications: Amazon Kinesis Data Streams, Amazon Data Firehose, Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka, Apache Flume, Apache Spark Streaming, and Apache Storm. There is a lot to the development phase. You need to write your code, know which development tools to use, use a source code repository, add storage for your application data, and integrate other tools and services. As your development grows, you may need more tools, services, capacity, and so on. Let's move on to the build of your development. This too requires a lot: compilation, resource generation, packaging, storing the build artifacts. And for larger applications, there are additional dependencies. And we'll talk more about CodeBuild under the deployment domain, but dive deeper into CodeBuild also for this task statement. Next, ensure you understand writing and running unit tests in your development environment. What services could we use for testing? Dive deeper into AWS SAM, CodePipeline, and CloudFormation. And dive deeper into automating your test environments. This exam requires depth in developing and integrating AWS services, features, tools, and using the CLI. Here's a question to consider: What if your application is gaining popularity and you now need to ensure syncing of the user profile data across devices to improve your user experience? Would you integrate AWS Amplify, Cognito identity pools, Cognito user pools, or Cognito Sync? Cognito Sync is a client library that cross syncs devices of application user data, and this adds less complexity because you can use it to synchronize user profile data across multiple devices and the internet without requiring your own backend. How about this one? I'll give you a hint: We talked about this earlier. For your application, you have recently noticed errors and that the read and the writes to your DynamoDB table are being throttled. As an excellent developer, you start troubleshooting and check CloudWatch. However, the consume capacity units have not exceeded your provisioned capacity units. You continue to investigate and find that the issue is from a hot partition in your DynamoDB table. This partition is accessed by your downstream application more frequently than the other partitions. How do you resolve this issue? Increase your read and write capacity for your table. Implement sharding to distribute workloads more evenly. Use DynamoDB Accelerator, or DAX. Implement error retries and exponential backoff. Or refactor your application to distribute your read and write operations evenly across the table. Well, you should know that when partitions are throttled, you need to optimize your table. Also, implementing retries and exponential backoff uses longer waits between retries for consecutive error response and this helps improve reliability. And here's an extra tip: If you're using an AWS SDK, this logic is built in. If you're using another SDK, then you need to implement this manually. For this exam, ensure you know how to have consistent development tests and production environments with increasing levels of operations control. Dive deeper and understand how and when to use AWS services, such as Amazon SQS, Amazon SNS, Amazon Kinesis Data Streams, Amazon Kinesis services, Amazon DynamoDB Streams, the AWS Internet of Things, Amazon MQ, and AWS Step Functions in your microservice architecture in AWS. Let's get started with the second task statement from Domain 1: Develop code for AWS Lambda.
"""

##### Lesson 3: Develop code for AWS Lambda (16m 44s)

"""
Welcome back! Let's get started with the second statement task, Develop code for AWS Lambda.In
(opens in a new tab)
 the previous lesson, we talked about developing with Lambda, but in this lesson we will dive deeper. For Lambda there are two key design principles under the AWS Well-Architected Framework operational excellence pillar and the reliability pillar that stand out to me. One is to perform operations as code and the other is to scale horizontally to increase aggregate workload availability. Lambda is a great serverless compute service to run your application code. When you create your Lambda function, you write code to do something. When Lambda is invoked, it is in an execution environment that has a runtime that matches the language of your function code. The execute environment also manages the resources required to run your function and provides lifecycle support for your function's runtime and any external extensions. When you create your Lambda function, you specify the configuration information such as memory, execution times, and so on. Dive deeper into the lifecycle of your execution environment. Understand the triggers for invoking your functions and ways to invoke, such as lifecycle events, external requests, AWS services, scheduled, and manual too which are either sync, async, or polling. Understand how to configure Lambda functions and define environment variables and parameters for memory, concurrency, timeout, runtime, handler, layers, extensions, triggers, and destinations.  Do you know what to use to prevent a function from using too much reserved concurrency? For cost optimization you may want to control your concurrency and you could use reserved concurrency which splits the pool of available concurrency into subsets.  Here is a question with some troubleshooting too. What if you deployed an application that uses two identical Lambda functions with the exact same code to process ad-hoc requests, but the functions are performing differently. Luckily, you configured CloudWatch to track your metrics and you are able to see that the first Lambda function is processing requests as expected, but the second function is taking longer to process the requests. What could you implement to solve this issue? Well, first we need to know the unit of scale for Lambda which is concurrent execution. So, you could set the concurrency execution limit of both functions to a higher number or decrease the concurrency execution limit of the first function that is performing as expected. For this exam, you also need to understand how Lambda functions process records in data streams. For Lambda functions that process Kinesis or DynamoDB streams, the number of shards is the unit of concurrency. If your stream has 100 active shards, there will be at most 100 Lambda function invocations running concurrently. This is because Lambda processes each shard's events in sequence. What if you need to use the same Lambda function for multiple stages in your API, but that function needs to read data from different DynamoDB tables depending on which stage is being called? What solution would you implement? Do you create environment variables in your function or use stage variables? The correct answer is stage variables which you can define as configuration attributes in the deployment stage of your REST API. Creating an environment variable in your function would not be enough; you would need to integrate your Lambda function with API Gateway using a stage variable and also add the proper mapping configuration too. What if you need to process items from a stream or a queue, what would you configure? I would choose event source mapping which is a Lambda resource that reads items from an SQS queue, Kinesis stream, or DynamoDB stream, and sends items to your function in batches. And event source mapping can handle retries from errors or being throttled.Speaking of handling errors. What can you use to help with errors by using code in Lambda? Click for animation When you invoke a function, two types of error can occur. Invocation errors and Function errors. Depending on the type of error, the type of invocation, and the client or service that invokes the function, the retry behavior and the strategy for managing errors varies. What are some common invocation errors for Lambda functions? Well, there is request, caller, and account. What about common function errors? Those are function and runtime. Part of your design and development with Lambda must include a strategy for handling errors. You could retry, send the event to a queue for debugging, or ignore the error. If you use a retry strategy you need to ensure your code can handle the same event multiple times without causing duplicates or issues. Ensure you understand the retry behavior of the invoker for functions invoked indirectly.  For asynchronous invocation, Lambda handles retries and can send invocation records to a destination, such as SQS, SNS, Lambda, or EventBridge. Know how to configure this and the needed permissions too. With Lambda you can configure separate destinations for successful invocations and events that fail processing. You can also configure a dead letter queue to add more control over message handling for all asynchronous innovations including S3, SNS, IoT, and so on. How many times will Lambda retry a function error? The answer is twice and if the function doesn't have enough capacity to handle all incoming requests, events might wait in the queue for hours or days to be sent to the function. Again, you can configure a dead-letter queue on the function to capture events that weren't successfully processed.  We talked about event source mappings earlier, but for event source mappings that read from a queue, you can configure the length of time between retries and destination for failed events by configuring the visibility timeout and redrive policy on the source queue.  AWS services can also invoke a function synchronously or asynchronously.  When you invoke a function synchronously, Lambda runs the function and waits for a response. When the function completes, Lambda returns the response from the function's code with additional data, such as the version of the function that was invoked. To invoke a function synchronously with the AWS CLI, what command do you use? The invoke command. Several AWS services, such as Amazon S3 and SNS, invoke functions asynchronously to process events. When you invoke a function asynchronously, you don't wait for a response from the function code. You hand off the event to Lambda and Lambda handles the rest. You can configure how Lambda handles errors, and can send invocation records to a downstream resource to chain together components of your application. To help with errors in Lambda applications, what AWS services can you integrate? I always recommend using a combination of logs, metrics, alarms, and tracing to quickly detect and identify issues in your function code, API, or other resources that support your application, such as CloudWatch and AWS X-Ray. We mentioned a few minutes ago configuring permissions. Ensure you know how to ac-cess private resources in VPCs from your Lambda code. First, to access the private resources in your VPC, what does Lambda assign your function to for each subnet in your functions VPC configuration? It is an ENI with a security group. And just a tip, multiple functions can share the ENI, but only if that function shares the same subnet and security group in your VPC. Lambda automatically uses your function's permission to create and manage the ENI too.  You can also use Lambda-specific condition keys for VPC settings to provide additional permission controls for your Lambda functions. Diving deeper, do you know what the condition keys are in the IAM policies? 
lambda:VpcIds – Allow or deny one or more VPCs.

lambda:SubnetIds – Allow or deny one or more subnets.
lambda:SecurityGroupIds – Allow or deny one or more security groups.
 AWS has tutorials for this, so take some time to get some hands on and dive deeper. It is always best practice to test your Lambda functions. Ensure you know how to write and run test code by using AWS services and tools. What about unit testing? Let's say you have a number of functions that provide a larger part of your application's behavior. You can use a unit test to call an entry point function that invokes others and test those functions together as a single unit. You can also use integration testing to test how services interact with each other. When you test a Lambda function you are testing your logic, payload, and invocation. It should include end-to-end testing.  And as your application scales, use automated tests to gain feedback on the current state of your application. And do not forget to study on automating tests in your build pipeline. Click for animation Let's wrap up this lesson and talk about tuning your Lambda functions for optimal performance. Lambda manages scaling automatically and is already high-performing with the parallelization and concurrency. But we can also optimize our individual Lambda functions to reduce latency and increase the throughput. Let's dive deeper into a few ways to add more optimization and start with latency. When the Lambda service receives a request to run a function via the Lambda API, the service first prepares an execution environment. During this step, the service downloads the code for the function, which is stored in an internal S3 bucket (or in Amazon ECR if the function uses container packaging). It then creates an environment with the memory, runtime, and configuration specified. Once complete, Lambda runs any initialization code outside of the event handler before finally running the handler code. As far as cost, you are not charged for this cold start, but it does add latency to the overall invocation duration. After this execution is completed, the execution environment is frozen to ensure better resource management and performance. So, when another request arrives for the same function, the service can reuse the environment. This request is usually faster and is referred to as a warm start. Cold starts are usually more common in development and test functions. Now you should not depend on this execution environment for reuse for performance optimization. Dive deeper into why, for example, if you update your code or change the functional configuration, the next start will be cold. A better plan is to use EventBridge rules to schedule invocations every minute to help keep the environment active and warm. Again, dive deeper into why this is also not best.For example, warming the environment will not help if functions scale to meet traffic or if the function runs in a different Availability Zone. A better solution is to use provisioned concurrency to ensure the lowest possible latency.Let's move on and talk about how to optimize your memory and compute power in Lambda. In your Lambda configurations when you add more memory, it will also increase the amount of CPU. So, if your function is CPU or memory bound, you can change the memory setting to improve performance.  However, choosing the memory allocated to Lambda functions is an optimization process that balances speed and cost. And following best practice with automation and not manually running tests on your functions and selecting different memory allocations, you can use the AWS Lambda Power Tuning tool that uses Step Functions to run multiple concurrent versions of your Lambda function at different memory allocations and measures the performance. And Cost Optimizer is another tool you could use to automate a cost performance analysis for all your Lambda functions.  Dive deeper into optimizing your static initialization as well which can contribute to the overall cold start we were discussing earlier.  A distributed systems application consists of multiple services communicating using messages over a network. Due to network delays, traffic, message retries, system failovers, and individual performance profiles of the services, the time taken to complete a unit of work can vary. AWS X-Ray can help to identify performance of your outliers. For the exam, also know when not to use a Lambda function because there may be other alternatives that can improve performance. For functions that act as orchestrators, calling other services and functions and coordinating work, this can result in idle time in the function and increased costs. Moving the orchestration flow to AWS Step Functions creates a more maintainable and resilient state machine, and can help reduce cost. Another is Lambda functions that transport data from one service to another without performing any business logic on that data can often be replaced with service integrations. For example, it's usually not necessary to put a Lambda function between API Gateway and DynamoDB to read an item from a table. This can be achieved by using Velocity Template Language (VTL) in an API Gateway service integration directly with DynamoDB. This can help improve scalability and decrease cost. If a microservice sends all events to a Lambda function for filtering, and only operates on a small subset of events, you may be able to implement the filtering before invoking the function. For example, S3 events can be filtered on prefix and suffix patterns, SNS can filter messages before invoking targets, and with Amazon EventBridge, you can use content filtering logic within the rules to be highly selective in which events trigger your functions.Using filters can reduce cost and improve efficiency because you are only invoking Lambda functions for events that your application cares about.Dive deeper into Lambda and serverless to understand how to use execution context for reuse, how to use environment variables, how to handle dependencies in the function code, how to reduce your deployment package for the runtime, how and why to improve memory of your lambda, Lambda execution timeout, how to monitor logs of Lambda, and so on.Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 1: Use data stores in application development. 
"""

##### Lesson 4: Use data stores in application development (9m 10s)

"""
Let's get started with the third task statement, use data stores and application development. In the past two lessons, we have talked about designing applications with microservices. Part of that design and development is a data strategy to help manage, act on, and react to your data to ensure you make better decisions, respond faster, and to transform your data into insights. For this exam, ensure you know how to use, manage, and maintain data stores. We have discussed AWS services that you can integrate to support the development of microservices to connect to your VPC and services. And then, of course, we have our data stores, which are used to persist data needed by the microservices. Dive deeper into available data stores in AWS, such as RDS, Aurora, DynamoDB, S3, EFS, EBS, and more. Ensure you know which AWS storage to use for specific data. For example, if you need a file server, block storage, or object storage. And understand which database consistent model you need for your application or different scenarios and use cases. Let's say that you're planning to add a global secondary index to your DynamoDB table to allow the application to query a specific index across all the data in the base table and all the partitions too. To create a table with one or more global secondary indexes, what would you use? You would use the create table operation with the global secondary indexes parameter. You will need to know specifics like this. Global secondary indexes inherit the read/write capacity mode from the base table. So as a developer, when you're using a global secondary index, you should consider that queries or scans on the index will consume capacity units from the index, not the base table. And also that queries on the index will support eventual consistency only. What consistency does S3 support? S3 provides strong read-after-write consistency. DynamoDB supports eventually consistent and strongly consistent. What about Aurora and RDS? Ensure you dive deeper. Here's another question to consider. You are updating an application to use Lambda and a DynamoDB table that will be provisioned to have 10 read capacity units and each item for the table will have a size of 4 kilobytes. How many eventual and strong consistent read requests will your table be able to handle per second? Know how to get the number of strong and eventual consistent read requests that your table can accommodate per second. Remember that 1 WCU equals 1 KB per second. You can write 1 kilobyte of data per second to that table. 1 RCU equals 4 kilobytes per second, and you can read 4 kilobytes of data per second from that table. Step one, multiply the value of the provisioned RCU by 4 KB. So 10 RCU times 4 KB equals 40. Step two. To get the number of strong consistency requests, just divide the result of step one by 4 KB. So 40 divided by 4 KB equals 10 strongly consistent read requests. Step three, to get the number of eventual consistency requests, just divide the result of step one by 2 KB. So 40 divided by 2 KB equals 20 eventually consistent read requests. Ensure you also understand the different storage patterns needed for your data. For example, what is an AWS service that uses ephemeral storage? Well, one is Lambda, and also EC2. What are design patterns that ephemeral storage works well with? ETL jobs, machine learning, data processing, when you download an S3 object in response to an S3 event, graphic processing, and so on. What about persistent storage design patterns? And what AWS services provide persistent storage? EFS, EBS, FSx, RDS, DynamoDB, and so on. And persistent storage is needed for web serving, content management, stateful microservices, machine learning, and more. The optimal storage solution for an application varies based on the kind of access method, patterns of access, required throughput, frequency of access, frequency of update, availability, and durability constraints. Well-architected systems use multiple storage solutions and enable different features to improve performance and use resources efficiently. In a microservices design, each component should have its own data persistent layer. What AWS services can help to manage the data lifecycle? Lifecycle management can use policies to know where to store your data, for how long, who has access, and so on. S3 and EFS have lifecycle policies, and so do other storage options. There is also AWS Data Lifecycle Manager to help automate the retention, creation, and deletion of EBS snapshots. As a developer, what are your goals for data management? Integrity, confidentiality, and availability are top ones for me, as well as ensuring compliance or the safety of your data in a disaster. Is one of your goals to ensure increased data retrieval performance? If so, what would you use? RAM and in-memory engines, content delivery networks, DNS? Well, in distributed designs, you can develop a dedicated caching layer to run independently from the data store cache and the lifecycles. If this is your design, ensure you know the best practices, such as validating the data being cached, TTLs to expire data accordingly, and defining the appropriate recovery time objective and recovery point objective. Dive deeper into caching strategies and understand the advantages and disadvantages along with when to use each, such as lazy loading and write through. Let's take a step back to your data persistence and serializing and deserializing data to provide persistence to a data store. You'll most likely be working with different types of data in your application. What is your design for unifying and loading the data to your persistent data store for analysis to make better data-driven improvements? What ETL tools are available in AWS? Dive deeper into AWS Glue and the AWS Glue Data Catalog, EMR, Lambda, Kinesis, and more. For this exam, you must ensure you have enough depth for the basics, but also ensure you can add improvements. For example, what if you need to add the ability to create, read, update, and delete items from a DynamoDB table? What AWS services could you use to update your application? You could create a serverless API that creates, reads, updates, and deletes items from a DynamoDB table using Lambda and API Gateway. For this design, when you invoke your HTTP API, API Gateway routes the request to your Lambda function. Lambda interacts with the DynamoDB table, and API Gateway returns a response to you. Building on top of that, how do you ensure you choose the right partition key for a schema design in DynamoDB? Make sure you dive deep into the primary keys in DynamoDB and understand why you need a partition key. What are best practices for partition keys in DynamoDB? Use high cardinality attributes. Use composite attributes. Cache the popular items using DAX. And add random numbers or digits for write-heavy use cases. A randomizing strategy can greatly improve the write throughput along with a sharding approach to read individual items. Dive deeper into partition key strategies and evaluate approaches based on your data ingestion and access pattern to choose the appropriate key with least possible throttling concerns. And also for DynamoDB, know the differences between queries and scans and when to use each. Let's get started with our first walkthrough question.
"""

##### Additional Resources:

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/HowItWorks.ReadWriteCapacityMode.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/examples-dynamodb.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-eventsourcemapping.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-sync.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-async.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_Tutorials.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/CHAP_AuroraOverview.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lifecycle-mgmt.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/aurora-serverless-v2.html

#### Practice Questions Walkthrough (20m)

#### AWS SimuLearn (1h)

"""
Building a Serverless CRUD Application

This AWS SimuLearn aligns with Domain 1 of AWS Certified Developer – Associate (DVA-C02).

In this AWS SimuLearn assignment, you review a real-world scenario. You help a fictional customer design a solution on AWS. After the design is complete, you build the proposed solution in a guided lab within a live AWS Management Console environment. You gain hands-on experience working with AWS services, using the same tools and technology that professionals use to construct AWS solutions.

How it works

AWS SimuLearn is powered by generative AI to help develop your soft skills, such as communication and problem-solving in life-like conversations with AI-generated customers. An AI quiz agent evaluates your conversation responses, and an AI helper agent, Dr. Newton, is available when you get stuck. After each solution-building conversation, you build and validate the solution in a live console environment.

This lab is part of 4 steps that you can use to prepare for your exam with confidence. To follow the 4 steps, enroll in the Exam Prep Plan: AWS Certified Developer – Associate (DVA-C02). The Exam Prep Plan includes exam-style questions, videos that review each exam domain and task statement, practice assessments, hands-on labs, flashcards, and more. The plan also includes domain-based training to refresh your AWS knowledge and skills. Some of this content might require an AWS Skill Builder subscription.
"""

### DOMAIN 2

#### Review (45m)

##### Lesson 1: Domain 2 introduction (2m 56s)

"""
Welcome back, let's get started with Domain two covering security. This domain covers 26% of the exam content, so you can expect about 17 questions involving development. At AWS, we say security comes first and it is important in every layer of your design and development. When you are developing and building an application in AWS, what are your top security priorities? Well, I think of integrating security reviews, penetration testing, code analysis, verification, automatic remediation to security risks, and measuring, monitoring, and improving through the lessons learned during the whole build and deployment. But another part is the security of your application and ensuring security at every layer.This domain covers everything from implementing a strong identity foundation, enabling traceability, applying security at every layer, automating security best practices, protecting data in transit and at rest, keeping people away from your data, and preparing for security events. Domain 2: Security is broken into 3 task statements that we will discuss over the next few lessons. Task statement 2.1: Implement authentication and/or authorization for applications and AWS services, Task Statement 2.2: Implement encryption by using AWS services. and Task Statement 2.3: Manage sensitive data in application code. For the first task statement, authentication and authorization for both your application services but also AWS services, you will dive deeper into implementing the principle of least privilege, separation of duties, and establishing a centralized identity management. For the second task statement, you will need knowledge of encryption, tokenization, access control and classifying your data into sensitivity levels. For the third task statement, you will dive deeper into security to ensure you can secure and manage sensitive data in your application code, eliminate long term static credentials, add traceability, use tools and services to remove the need for direct access to your data or manual data processing, and use automation to increase your speed of detection, investigation, and recovery. Over the next several videos in this module I will address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful.  Refer to the exam guide and scan here for a link to download and follow along. Let's start to evaluate your readiness for the exam in the next video where we will cover the first task statement from Domain 2: Task statement 2.1: Implement authentication and/or authorization for applications and AWS services.
"""

##### Lesson 2: Implement authentication and authorization for application and AWS services (10m 48s)

"""
Welcome back! Let's get started with the first task statement from Domain 2: Implement authentication and/or authorization for applications and AWS services. Part of developing in AWS is understanding fundamentals. If you want to understand AWS for this exam and the real world, you need to learn the fundamentals and learn how AWS could fail and how to add infrastructure protection.  I cover fundamentals in the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam prep course, so check that out if you need fundamentals or a refresher. This task statement covers defining trust boundaries, system security configurations, maintenance, authentication and authorization, as well as, policy-enforcement points like web application firewalls or API gateways.Dive deeper into defining and managing identities for your applications across Regions, Edge Locations, Availability Zones and local zones too. Understand the AWS services and their resiliency. What is the resiliency of different services, globally resilient, regionally resilient, or Availability Zone resilient.  We just mentioned fundamentals, dive deeper into AWS accounts, what they are, and how they work to ensure you can secure access to your AWS resources. What level of service is AWS Identity and Access Management, or IAM? Zonal, regional, or global? IAM is a global AWS service and you will need depth in IAM for this exam. Review the best practices regarding root user security, applying the principle of least privilege, and multi-factor authentication.  Understand how IAM provides the needed control for authentication and authorization. Do you know what a principal entity is? Do you know how to implement the needed permissions for policies and accounts, policies and users, policies and groups, and identity-based and resource-based policies? Ensure you understand that policy types are categorized as permissions policies or permissions boundaries.  Dive deeper into resource-based policies, service policies, and principal policies. Here is a question to consider. If your application will be hosted in ECS and needs permissions to run 4 separate tasks, how do you configure the access for 4 tasks to the AWS resources? Do you use an IAM group, IAM roles, or service-linked roles?  The correct answer is IAM roles. Now you may have thought about service-linked roles being the correct answer, but this is where ensuring depth will help you answer questions correctly. Service-linked roles are a type of IAM role that is linked directly with ECS itself, not to tasks.  Since we are talking about depth in policies, there are two types of identity-based policies, AWS managed policies and inline policies. And in AWS managed policies, there are two types: AWS managed policies and customer managed policies. Here is a question, what uses a managed policy to set the maximum permissions that an administrator can set? The answer is permission boundaries. Ensure you understand identity and resource policies in depth.  What about policies in your AWS Organization, how are those managed? A key tip to remember with service control policies is that SCPs limit permissions that identity-based policies and resource-based policies grant to users or roles within the account, BUT do not grant permissions. A similar policy is a session policy which assumes a role or federated user, and we will dive into cross account roles and federation in just a minute, but session policies limit permission for a created session, they do not grant permissions.  Here is a question, if you are using AWS Organizations to manage multiple AWS accounts and you want to test the impact of your SCPs on your IAM policies and resource policies. What service could you use to test and troubleshoot IAM and resource-based policies in your AWS Organization? Would you choose systems manager, Inspector, Config, or IAM Policy Simulator? The answers may give it away, but I would choose the policy simulator.  Let's move on and talk about role-based access control (RBAC) models in AWS. This is the traditional authorization model used in IAM and it defines the permissions based on a user's job. You can implement RBAC by creating and attaching different policies to identities, so IAM users, IAM groups, or IAM roles. In AWS, you can also use an attribute-based access control (ABAC) model which defines permissions based on attributes or tags.  Here are a few questions to consider. How do you scale secure access across accounts and applications? Dive into IAM identity Center.  How do you integrate Microsoft Active Directory? Certain services like Amazon Workspaces needs a directory, and AWS directory services works great with these types of services and can also be integrated with on premises systems too.  Understand the AWS Directory Services and when to use each. Simple AD is compatible with basic AD functions and can handle 500 users to 5000 users. Simple AD is for simple requirements. Managed Microsoft AD is an actual Microsoft AD Directory service and you can create a trust relationship with your on premises directory. AD Connector provides proxy requests back to an on premises directory. It is great for proxy identities to integrate with AWS services when you do not want to store any directory info in the cloud. Let's dive deeper into federation. Let's say that we have our model and plan to configure permissions using the principle of least privilege and so on. What about identity federation for your application in AWS?  There are three types of Identity Federation that you should know, cross account role: this is where a remote account, so a remote IDP, is allowed to assume a role and access your account resources.  Dive deeper into AssumeRole and cross-account access as well as AssumeRoleWithSAML and AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity. SAML 2.0 which is a standard that is used mostly for on premises, we mentioned this earlier, Microsoft Active Directory or others. In this case users can log into AWS with their on premises credentials. And Web Identity Federation which is when we use IDPs like Amazon, Google, FB, and allow users to assume roles and access our AWS resources using their IDP credentials. And for SAML 2.0 and Web ID Federation, AWS uses the Secure Token Service and Cognito for identity federation. The federated identity is verified using an external IDP and provides the identity a secure token and then the user can swap the secure token for temp credentials into AWS by assuming roles.Do
(opens in a new tab)
 you know the difference between STS Get Tokens, GetFederationToken, and GetSessionToken and when you would use each? GetFederationToken could be used in a proxy application that gets temporary security credentials for a distributed application in a corporate network. GetSessionToken could be used if you want to use MFA to protect programmatic calls to specific AWS API operations. You can also use roles to delegate access to not only users and services, but also applications that do not have access to your AWS resources, such as access to resources or services that a user does not usually have access to or to grant access for users in a different AWS account.  Let's dive deeper into managing the user identities outside of AWS. What should you use instead of creating IAM users for the external identities? The answer is IAM identity providers. How does using IDPs add more security to your applications? Well, with IDPs we do not have to distribute or embed credentials.  Do you know how to create an AWS IDP and establish a trust relationship?  Also, what IDPs does IAM support? Ensure you understand Security Assertion Markup Language [SAML], OpenID Connect [OIDC], and Amazon Cognito. And remember that identity federation is great for mobile applications to use your AWS resources or for third party audits. Here are some questions to consider. If you are creating a mobile application with S3 and DynamoDB that will access AWS resources and store the user's information, and the requests to the AWS services must be signed with an AWS access key. What is the best practice to use in your application to request access? It is best practice to build your application so it requests temporary credentials mapped to an AWS role that has only the permissions needed to perform the tasks required.  Ensure you understand this authentication and authorization flow? With an IDP, when the request is made, your user will receive an authentication token which will be exchanged for AWS Security Token Service [AWS STS] which is temporary security credentials in AWS that map to an IAM role. AWS STS allows you to receive short term credentials.  Now let's dive deeper here. Some AWS services require that you have permission to get an AWS STS service bearer token before you can access the resources programmatically. Let's consider a question, let's say that for your application, you are using an API Gateway Lambda authorizer to provide authentication for every API request, but also to control access to your API. You now have a new requirement to implement an authentication strategy. Well, first can you think of an example of an authentication strategy? How about SAML or O-Auth. So which method is similar to OAuth and SAML and would be best for this scenario? AWS STS-based authentication. Request Parameter-based authentication. Or Token-based authentication.  Well, you first need depth to ensure you know API Gateway and Lambda authorizer AND how the authentication works with both the API Gateway service and Lambda authorizer which is a feature of API Gateway. What are the two types of Lambda authorizers? A token-based Lambda authorizer  and REQUEST authorizer. A token-based Lambda authorizer, is the answer for this scenario bc a TOKEN authorizer receives the caller's identity in a bearer token, such as a JSON Web Token (JWT) or an OAuth token. A request parameter-based Lambda authorizer, also known as REQUEST authorizer, receives the caller's identity in a combination of headers, query string parameters, StageVariables, and $context variables.  Diving deeper, you could use an AWS Lambda function from an AWS account that is different from the one in which you created your Lambda authorizer function by using a Cross-Account Lambda Authorizer. But the correct answer in this scenario is to use a token-based authorization since you want to implement a custom authorization scheme that uses a bearer token authentication strategy such as OAuth or SAML. Again, diving deeper, you can use Amazon Cognito to authenticate, authorize, and manage users for web and mobile applications. Cognito is an AWS web identity provider service that brokers the SSO or ID federation by creating Cognito ID pools. Cognito ID pools are pools of identities and act as an ID broker between your web application and WEB ID Providers, and no additional code is needed. Dive deeper into the two main components of Cognito. Do you know what they are? User pools and identity pools.  Do you know the differences between the two and when to use each and for what? Well, user pools are user directories that provide sign-up or sign-in for users and authenticate a user to obtain tokens related to user identity and access policies. Identity pools help to grant temporary and limited credentials for your users to access AWS services and resources and federate them with identity providers.Also, dive deeper into the flow of authentication and authorization of Cognito and into IAM roles. IAM and Cognito are very important concepts and you will most likely see several questions on IAM Roles, IAM Groups, Cross account, Cognito User pools, and Cognito Identity pools, and so on. This exam will test your knowledge of distributing AWS credentials to your code, so dive deeper into configuring that access depending on different scenarios that your code is running. Again, you do not need to be able to write code, but you should be able to read IAM policies. Let's get started with the second task statement from Domain 2: Implement encryption by using AWS services.
"""

##### Lesson 3: Implement encryption by using AWS services (16m 39s)

"""
Welcome back. Let's get started with the second task statement from Domain 2: Implement encryption by using AWS services. We mentioned fundamentals in our last lesson and encryption is definitely one you must include before architecting any workload or application. In AWS, there are a number of different approaches you can use when addressing data protection. For the exam, ensure you dive deeper into data classification (which we will cover in the next lesson), protecting data at rest, and protecting data in transit. For this lesson and task statement, the focus is on implementing encryption with AWS services. Ensure you understand encryption and the two types of encryption: encryption at rest and in transit because in AWS you need to make sure your data is encrypted at rest and also in transit. Do you know the difference between encryption and tokenization? Both are data protection schemes. Tokenization adds additional protection for your data and can help to meet compliance requirements. Encryption transforms the data and makes it unreadable without a secret key.Moving on, encryption in transit is designed to protect data as it is being transferred and there is an added secure key and certificate management. And we will talk about certificate management in a few minutes. Let's dive a bit deeper into the AWS services and features to encrypt data, manage keys, and enforce and manage encryption across services using policies and configuration tools. First, ensure you understand how AWS uses server-side encryption, especially in KMS, to control when data is decrypted, by whom, and which conditions as the data is passed between your application and AWS services. You could also choose to encrypt your data within your own application environment using KMS client-side encryption. This design will remove AWS services out of your trust boundary. Ensure you understand for this design choice, application-level and client-side encryption and how they can be used to ensure a consistent security posture as data traverses in your own service architecture no matter if it is in AWS, on premises, or a hybrid design. For both designs, the use of KMS to manage the lifecycle of and permissions on encryption keys provides a consistent access control mechanism for all encryption keys, no matter where they are used. What if you were tasked to improve security to ensure that all objects in a specific S3 bucket were encrypted at rest using SSE-KMS. Well, first you need to know that S3 has encryption at rest and also encryption in transit. But it is important to understand that buckets are not encrypted, objects are, so encryption should be defined at the object level.S3 has two methods to support encryption. Client-side encryption and server-side encryption and both of these use encryption in transit because encryption in transit, and just recently announced at rest too, is standard with S3. Dive deeper into, Server-Side Encryption with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C), Server-Side Encryption with Amazon S3-Managed Keys (SSE-S3), and Server-Side Encryption with Customer Master Keys Stored (CMKs) in AWS Key Management Service (SSE-KMS)You need to ensure server-side encryption for all objects that are stored in your bucket, use a bucket policy, and for depth, ensure you know how to add a condition to the policy to only upload objects that have a request including the x-amz-server-side-encryption header. You may also have questions on encrypting your EBS volumes. How does this encryption work? And what types of data is encrypted? Amazon EBS encryption uses KMS keys when creating encrypted volumes and snapshots. Encryption operations occur on the servers that host EC2 instances, ensuring the security of both data-at-rest and data-in-transit between an instance and its attached EBS storage. And you can attach both encrypted and unencrypted volumes to an instance simultaneously. It is important to understand how EC2 works with KMS to encrypt and decrypt your EBS volumes depending on whether the snapshot from which you create an encrypted volume is encrypted or unencrypted. Let's also talk about encryption with RDS to provide an additional layer of data protection. Data that is encrypted at rest includes the underlying storage for DB instances, its automated backups, read replicas, and snapshots. For the exam, dive deeper. Here are some questions to consider. Can you encrypt a database instance after it is created? Also, can you turn off encryption once you enable it? Can you create an encrypted snapshot of an unencrypted database instance? What KMS key do you use to encrypt your read replicas that are in the same Region as your database instance? And how do you copy an encrypted snapshot from one AWS Region to another? Let's step back to KMS because for this exam, you will need depth in KMS and the integration of KMS with other services. For the exam make sure we understand the cryptographic keys never leave KMS. KMS can create keys, keys can be imported, and keys can be managed, and the keys are used to perform operations, but the keys are locked inside KMS. Ensure you understand the different keys. What are customer master keys (CMKS) and what do they do? They are used by KMS for cryptographic operations, you can use them, applications can use them, and other AWS services can also use them. CMKs hold the ID, the creation date, the resource policy, and description of what it does, and the state which tells you if the key is active or not. Keys can be generated by KMS or key materials can be imported to KMS and then this key material is used to encrypt and decrypt data. If you need to encrypt a larger size, use a Data Encryption key which KMS can generate using a CMK. Ensure you understand data encryption keys, how it is stored and used and what permissions are needed.In
(opens in a new tab)
 KMS, there are two types of CMKs, AWS Managed CMKs and Customer Managed Keys. AWS managed keys are created by AWS and for example are used when you use S3 using KMS for encryption. Customer managed keys are created by you and are more configurable. Both AWS Managed and Customer Managed keys support key rotation. For key rotation AWS managed keys cannot be disabled and rotation occurs every 1 year, but with Customer Managed CMKs rotation is optional and if enabled keys are rotated once a year. And KMS also allows us to create aliases to point to certain CMKs and you can share keys or aliases across regions using multi-Region keys.How
(opens in a new tab)
 does AWS prevent unauthorized use of encryption keys outside the boundary of AWS KMS? Hardware security modules and the design of HSMs ensure that plaintext keys cannot be used outside of the HSM by anyone. A key can only be used when an authenticated and authorized customer request is received. Now what if you have a requirement to directly manage the HSM device that generates, stores, and uses encryption keys for your application? What AWS service can you use? AWS CloudHSM. What is a key difference between using KMS and CloudHSM to store and manage your keys? Well, with Cloud HSM, AWS provides the encryption hardware for us, and then you have to use your OWN client to perform the encryption. So HSM is your own dedicated hardware, it is tamper-resistant, and has a FIPS 140-2 level 3 compliance.  It is best practice to add an HSM module in each AZ for high availability. But like KMS, Cloud HSM can support both symmetric and asymmetric encryption. So, let's say that you need to improve the security of your application and have decided to use KMS to create and manage the encryption keys across the AWS services that the application uses. How do you integrate KMS to locally encrypt data? Well, let's step back just a bit. When you encrypt your data, your data is protected, but you also have to protect your encryption key. One strategy to encrypt is Envelope encryption which is the practice of encrypting plaintext data with a data key, and then encrypting the data key under another key. You can even encrypt the data encryption key under another encryption key, and encrypt that encryption key under another encryption key. But, eventually, one key must remain in plaintext so you can decrypt the keys and your data. This top-level plaintext encryption key is known as the master key. So long story short, to encrypt locally, use the GenerateDataKey operation to get a data encryption key and to erase the plaintext data key from memory and store the encrypted data key alongside the locally encrypted data.Let's also talk about how you can securely store configurations and secrets using the AWS Systems Manager parameter store.  You have the option to use KMS to encrypt your configurations that you place in the parameter store along with passwords. And it is scalable, durable, and it is free to use. SSM parameter store also allows version tracking of our configurations and secrets. For the exam, know that you need to define a hierarchy to store your parameters, you can have plaintext or encrypted parameters, and know you will use GetParameters or GetParametersByPAth API to retrieve your parameters. Another AWS service that allows you to store secrets and it is called AWS Secrets Manager. Understand AWS Secrets Manager and how it differs from SSM Parameter store. Secrets Manager is designed to store secrets and can force the rotation of your secrets every number of days. It also has the capabilities to automate the generation of secrets on that rotation. And your secrets are encrypted using KMS. Let's dive a bit deeper into encryption and talk about certificate management and protecting your websites and applications in AWS. AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) handles the complexity of creating, storing, and renewing public and private SSL/TLS X.509 certificates and keys that protect your websites and applications. You can provide certificates for your integrated AWS services either by issuing them directly with ACM or by importingthird-party certificates into the ACM management system. You can also export ACM certificates signed by AWS Private CA for use anywhere in your internal PKI. AWS offers two options to customers deploying managed X.509 certificates. AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) is for enterprise customers who need a secure web presence using TLS and AWS Private CA is for enterprise customers building a public key infrastructure (PKI) inside the AWS cloud and intended for private use within an organization. Let's consider a question on securing credentials. To improve the security of your applications that are using RDS in a multi-AZ deployment with read replicas, you have been tasked to ensure all database credentials, secrets, and API keys are not only encrypted but rotated on a regular basis. What solution do you integrate into your design? Do you store credentials in ACM, KMS, Secrets Manager, or Systems Manager Parameter store? I would use Secrets Manager to store and encrypt the credentials and enable automatic rotation too.Let's see how you do with this question. You are developing a serverless application that uses Lambda functions which will read data from RDS. You just realized that these functions need to share the same connection string and to improve security you also need to ensure that the string is encrypted. What is the most secure solution you could implement? Use a Lambda environment variable encrypted with CloudHSM or use a Lambda environment variable encrypted with KMS? Or do you create an IAM execution role that has the needed access to RDS or create a Secure String Parameter using the AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store? If you have the needed depth to know which service, features, and tools would work best for different scenarios you should be able to identify distractors and choose the best answer for the scenario and requirements. AWS Systems Manager Parameter Storeprovides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management too. You can store data such as passwords, database strings, and license codes as parameter values. You can also store values as plain text or encrypted data. You can then reference values by using the unique name that you specified when you created the parameter. As far as using AWS Lambda environment variables encrypted with KMS which will be shared by the Lambda functions is incorrect. Even though the credentials will be encrypted, these environment variables will only be used by an individual Lambda function, and cannot be shared. Create an IAM Execution Role that has access to RDS and attach it to the Lambda functions is also incorrect because this solution will not encrypt the database credentials for RDS. And using AWS Lambda environment variables encrypted with CloudHSM is incorrect because Lambda primarily uses KMS for encryption and not CloudHSM.Finally, let's wrap up this lesson and talk about generating certificates and SSH keys for development purposes. A key pair, consisting of a public key and a private key, is another set of security credentials that you use to prove your identity when connecting to an Amazon EC2 instance. Amazon EC2 stores the public key on your instance, and you store the private key. Anyone who possesses your private key can connect to your instances, so it's important that you store your private key in a secure place.As
(opens in a new tab)
 an alternative to key pairs, you can use AWS Systems Manager Session Manager to connect to your instance with an interactive one-click browser-based shell or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). Dive deeper and know the different types of encryption options available for Amazon S3, Amazon KMS, and so on. Understand the concepts on how to use encryption in Amazon EBS, encryption options available in Amazon RDS. Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 2: Manage sensitive data in application code.
"""

##### Lesson 4: Manage sensitive data in application code (12m 53s)

"""
Welcome back, let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 2: Manage sensitive data in application code. You must ensure you have foundational practices in your development to protect your data. For example, data classification provides a way to categorize data based on levels of sensitivity, and encryption protects data by way of rendering it unintelligible to unauthorized access. These methods are important because they support objectives such as preventing mishandling or complying with regulatory obligations. An effective strategy for securing sensitive data in the cloud requires a good understanding of general data security patterns and a clear mapping of these patterns to cloud security controls. You then can apply these controls to implementation-level details specific to data stores such as RDS and DynamoDB.The first step when implementing security is to think about security from a data perspective.You
(opens in a new tab)
 need to understand the type and classification of data your workload is processing, the associated business processes, data owner, applicable legal and compliance requirements, where it's stored, and the resulting controls that are needed to be enforced. By carefully managing an appropriate data classification system, along with each workload's level of protection requirements, you can map the controls and level of access or protection appropriate for the data. Think about the data you are protecting, how it is stored, and who has access to it. Not all data is created equal, which means classifying data properly is crucial to its security. Data classification enables you to define appropriate security zones for data. Security zones give you the flexibility to apply the appropriate level of network flow controls and access policy controls to the data.The concept of defense in depth refers to layering multiple security controls together in order to provide redundancy in case a single security control fails. You can apply two categories of security controls to your systems to enable defense in depth, preventative and detective.In
(opens in a new tab)
 an effective security posture, you need both preventative and detective security controls because the business and technology landscape are both dynamic and evolutionary. Let's dive deeper into preventative controls. You can layer the three main categories of preventative controls, IAM, infrastructure security, and data protection with both encryption and tokenization. In an earlier lesson we mentioned, to use IAM, MFA for authentication and authorization ,and to apply the principle of least privilege throughout. For example, you can initiate database connections and operations for the management flows from a dedicated network zone. The zone should be deemed appropriate for management flows and is separate from application flows.This approach limits the potential for damage to your environment if an application is compromised because management credentials and operations are separated from the application credentials and operations. Optionally, you could implement a database firewall solution as a policy enforcement point to ensure that the types of database commands executed from a given security zone are appropriate for that security zone. When a database requires credentials that are not integrated with IAM, consider using a secrets manager, and add encryption with KMS.Detective controls allow you to get the information you need to respond to changes and incidents. For example, you can see detection of unauthorized traffic by continuous monitoring of VPC flow logs to identify and remediate any security anomalies along with Amazon GuardDuty to manage threat intelligence in the cloud. And then you can consume these findings as CloudWatch events to drive automated responses. Under detective controls is also configuration drift and you can use AWS Config with DynamoDB to detect configuration drift easily at the table level and with Amazon RDS for database instances, security groups, snapshots, subnet groups, and event subscriptions.So
(opens in a new tab)
, data classification provides a way to categorize data based on levels of sensitivity, and encryption protects data by way of rendering it unintelligible to unauthorized access. Both support objectives such as preventing mishandling or complying with regulatory obligations. Let's take a step back into classifying and ingesting your data, specifically to the step of identifying the data, and consider discovering data using Amazon Macie which is an AWS service that recognizes sensitive data such as personally identifiable information (PII) or intellectual property. After identifying and classifying your data, you can then establish a data catalog from inventorying data types, how they are used, if compliance is involved, and so on and store that information in AWS Glue Data Catalog. Using Sagemaker and Glue you can add data labeling to ensure data is classified and labeled appropriately. And as always, add the continuous monitoring, using Macie, of the data's security, usage and access patterns.Let's say you are developing an automated data pipeline to prevent sensitive data from being ingested into a data lake. What challenges do you think you will have? Well, how about the unstructured data, such as files from process reportings, text files from transcripts, emails, and so on. What could you integrate into your data pipeline to add an additional checkpoint that all sensitive data has been appropriately redacted or tokenized prior to ingestion. If you are using S3 as your primary data store, you could add Macie and your pipeline would look something like this. First, ingestion which brings data into the data lake. Second, storage which provides durable, scalable, and secure components to store the data using S3 buckets. Third, processing that transforms data into a consumable state through data validation, cleanup, normalization, transformation, and enrichment. This processing layer is where the additional validation steps are added to identify instances of sensitive data that haven't been appropriately redacted or tokenized prior to consumption. And then fourth, consumption which provides tools to gain insights from the data in the data lake.In
(opens in a new tab)
 the last lesson we talked about securely handling credentials and encrypting environment variables. Let's dive deeper and discuss how to secure sensitive data. Passing sensitive data in plaintext can cause security issues, as it's discoverable in the AWS Management Console or through AWS APIs such as DescribeTaskDefinition or DescribeTasks.Let's cover a few AWS services and how to use pass sensitive information as environment variables. A security best practice for containers is to pass sensitive information as environment variables. You can securely inject data into containers by referencing values stored in AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store or AWS Secrets Manager in the container definition of an Amazon ECS task definition. Then, you can expose your sensitive information as environment variables or in the log configuration of a container. In AWS Batch, you reference the secrets in your job definition. With CloudFormation you can retrieve secrets to use in another CloudFormation resource. In Lambda, you can use AWS parameters or Secrets Lambda Extension to retrieve and cache Secrets manager secrets in Lambda functions. You can use an interface VPC endpoint to privately access Secrets Manager APIs without an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, and so on. And when you configure Parameter Store with Secrets Manager, the secret-id Parameter Store requires a forward slash (/) before the name-string.Using Secrets Manager is sometimes a better fit than SSM Parameter Store, because Secrets Manager data is alwaysencrypted, and because Secrets Manager supports resource-level access policies.I want to change direction and talk about secure credential handling in AWS for people, not only applications. AWS requires different types of security credentials, depending on how you access AWS and what type of AWS user you are. And we mentioned this in our last lesson, but I want to touch on it again. For example, you need a username and password to sign in to the AWS Management Console, and you need access keys to make programmatic calls to AWS. Also, as a user, you can be an account root user, an IAM user, an AWS IAM Identity Center, or a federated identity. Here are a few questions to consider. What do you do with the root user access keys? Delete it! because you cannot change the permissions of your account root user, it has full access. How do you grant access to a developer for one specific task for an application running on premises, but needs access to AWS services using the AWS SDKs. Well, if you have resources running in AWS that need programmatic access to various AWS services, then it is best practice to use IAM roles. However, for applications running outside of AWS, and in our scenario the application is on premises, you will need access keys for programmatic access to the AWS resources. And you can create that from the AWS console by creating a new IAM user with programmatic access. Then in the application server running on premises, you can create the credentials file with the access keys of the IAM user.  It's critical to establish data classification and also review existing security practices to establish better policies based on newer threats and considering how to help protect data and what to consider when revisiting existing data classification policies.Under the security pillar of the AWS Well-Architected Framework, AWS recommends to first, classify the data into sensitivity levels and use mechanisms, such as encryption, tokenization, and access control. Second, define your data protection controls, and these could be tags, policies, AWS Organizations, SCSPs, KMS, and so on. And then use the mechanisms and tools to remove direct access or manual processing of data. Third, define the data lifecycle management strategy based on sensitivity level and any legal or organization requirements. And a key here is to consider retention, destruction, access management, transformation, and sharing too. And then fourth is to automate the identification and classification of the data and we talked about this earlier using Macie, Lambda, CloudWatch, SNS, and so on. For the exam, dive deeper into AWS security services along with the services we already mentioned and discussed, such as, IAM, AWS Organizations, AWS Glue, Amazon Neptune, CloudTrail, Systems Manager, GuardDuty, Config, AWS WAF, and more.Let's get started with the walkthrough questions for Domain 2.
"""

##### Additional resources:

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/operatorguide/least-privilege.html
- https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/tag/least-privilege/
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/tutorial_cross-account-with-roles.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-access-keys-best-practices.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/overview.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/introduction.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/default-encryption-faq.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSEncryption.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/acm-overview.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/waf-chapter.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/what-is-amazon-cognito.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/security.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-security.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/what-is.html

#### Practice Questions Walkthrough (20m)

#### AWS SimuLearn (1h)

"""
Automatically Enforce Data Encryption

This AWS SimuLearn aligns with Domain 2 of AWS Certified Developer – Associate (DVA-C02).

In this AWS SimuLearn assignment, you review a real-world scenario. You help a fictional customer design a solution on AWS. After the design is complete, you build the proposed solution in a guided lab within a live AWS Management Console environment. You gain hands-on experience working with AWS services, using the same tools and technology that professionals use to construct AWS solutions.

How it works

AWS SimuLearn is powered by generative AI to help develop your soft skills, such as communication and problem-solving in life-like conversations with AI-generated customers. An AI quiz agent evaluates your conversation responses, and an AI helper agent, Dr. Newton, is available when you get stuck. After each solution-building conversation, you build and validate the solution in a live console environment.

This lab is part of 4 steps that you can use to prepare for your exam with confidence. To follow the 4 steps, enroll in the Exam Prep Plan: AWS Certified Developer – Associate (DVA-C02). The Exam Prep Plan includes exam-style questions, videos that review each exam domain and task statement, practice assessments, hands-on labs, flashcards, and more. The plan also includes domain-based training to refresh your AWS knowledge and skills. Some of this content might require an AWS Skill Builder subscription.
"""

### DOMAIN 3

#### Review (45m)

##### Lesson 1: Domain 3 introduction (3m 56s)

"""
Welcome back, let's get started with Domain 3 which is Deployment. This domain covers 20% of the exam content, so you can expect about 13 questions. In the previous lessons, we have covered development and security, but part of your application build is also designing a scalable, efficient, and cost-effective deployment solution. And your deployment solutions should include how to update your application version, and how to manage the supporting infrastructure throughout the complete application lifecycle. So, what are we talking about here? Well, resource provisioning, configuration management, application deployment, software updates, monitoring, access control, and so on are all important factors to consider when designing a deployment solution. AWS provides a number of services that provide management capabilities for one or more aspects of your application lifecycle. But depending on your requirements, balancing manual management of resources or using AWS managed resources, and the type of application, AWS deployment services can be used on their own or combined to create your needed deployment solution and help to build and deliver your applications more rapidly and reliably.Domain 3: Deployment is broken into 4 task statements that we will discuss over the next few lessons. Task statement 3.1: Prepare application artifacts to be deployed to AWS, Task Statement 3.2: Test applications in development environments, Task Statement 3.3: Automate deployment testing, and Task Statement 3.4: Deploy code by using AWS CI/CD services. For the first task statement, you will dive deeper into managing the dependencies of your code module within the package, organizing files and a directory structure for application deployment, using code repositories in deployment environments, applying application requirements for resources, and how to access application configuration data. For the second task statement, you will dive deeper into testing deployed code by using AWS services and tools, performing mock integration for APIs and resolving integration dependencies, testing applications by using development endpoints, and deploying application stack updates to existing environments.For the third task statement, you will dive deeper into creating application test events, deploying API resources to various environments, creating application environments that use approved versions for integration testing, implementing and deploying infrastructure as code (IaC) templates, and managing environments in individual AWS services.For the fourth task statement, you will dive deeper into updating existing IaC templates, managing application environments by using AWS services, deploying an application version by using deployment strategies, committing code to a repository to invoke build, test, and deployment actions, using orchestrated workflows to deploy code to different environments, performing application rollbacks by using existing deployment strategies, using labels and branches for version and release management, and using existing runtime configurations to create dynamic deployments.Over the next several videos in this module I will address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful. Refer to the exam guide and scan here for a link to download and follow along.Let's get started with the first statement task, prepare application artifacts to be deployed to AWS and start to evaluate your readiness for the exam in the next video.
"""

##### Lesson 2: Prepare application artifacts to be deployed to AWS (10m 47s)

"""
Let's get started with the first task statement from Domain 3, prepare application artifacts to be deployed to AWS. As developers, we use artifact repositories to store and share version software or deployment packages, which increases code reuse, reduces delivery time, enables tighter artifact governance, and improves security visibility. What AWS service could you integrate for a secure, highly scalable, managed artifact repository service? AWS CodeArtifact eliminates the need for you to manage your own artifact storage system or worry about scaling its infrastructure. S3 is another service that can store application artifacts. Here's a question. You have built a serverless application using SAM, and you are using CloudFormation as the underlying deployment mechanism. Now that the application is ready for deployment, you need to zip the CodeArtifacts, upload them to Amazon S3, and produce the package template file for deployment. Using the CLI, do you know how to deploy your application? Dive deeper into the SAM commands. You may have questions asking you to choose different commands for different tasks. For example, what does SAM package do? How about SAM deploy? Well, SAM deploy is pretty obvious, but the SAM package command actually zips your code artifacts, uploads them to S3, produces a packaged SAM template file that is ready to be used with SAM deploy. What if you're using SAM to build and deploy applications in your serverless infrastructure, and you were tasked to create a CloudFormation template that includes your SAM script and other service configurations too, and this template will be used to launch a similar infrastructure in another Region. What do you add to the template to accomplish this task? Well, again, you need fundamentals. So what section of the template for serverless applications specifies the version of the SAM to use? The answer is the transform section. What about Lambda? You can use a deployment package to deploy your function code to Lambda. Lambda supports two types of deployment packages, container images and zip file archives. So back to our fundamentals, ensure you know both types and how they are deployed. Here's a question to consider. If you deploy your function code using a zip file archive, what can you use as a distribution mechanism for libraries, custom runtimes, and other function dependencies? Lambda layers help to manage your end development function code independently from the unchanging code and resources that it uses. You can configure your function to use layers that you create, layers that AWS provides, or layers from other AWS customers. Let's dive a bit deeper. Do you use layers with container images? No, instead, you package your preferred runtime, libraries, and other dependencies into the container image when you build the image. Here's another question. Let's say that you have a Lambda function that is over 100 megabytes in size, and that exceeds the deployment package size limits for direct uploads. You are tasked to refactor the function to pull in additional code and the dependencies from a different source to reduce the size of the deployment. What Lambda feature can you use, an environment variable, an alias, or layers? You can include layers to use libraries in your function without including them in the deployment package. Let's move on from storing artifacts and talk about ways to organize files, a directory structure for application deployment, and version control of your artifacts, because you need a way to store code, track revision history, merge code changes, and revert to earlier code versions when needed. Dive deeper into using code repositories in deployment environments. You could use CodePipeline to deploy code maintained in a repo to a single EC2 instance. Your pipeline is triggered when you push a change to the repo, and then the pipeline deploys your changes to an EC2 instance using CodeDeploy as the deployment service. You also need to know how to apply application requirements for resources in your deployments. We talked about Systems Manager in an earlier lesson, but dive deeper and understand how you can use Application Manager to view your application resources, monitor information, log data, and more. What are other features of Systems Manager you could use? AWS AppConfig helps to create, manage, and quickly deploy application configurations and supports control deployments to applications of any size, and includes built-in validation checks and monitoring. And we've talked about Parameter Store several times, Secret Manager encrypts all, but what about CloudFormation? How could you use CloudFormation to apply application requirements for resources in the deployment? You can use CloudFormation to automatically install, configure, and start applications on EC2 instances. This helps you to duplicate deployments, but also update existing installations without connecting directly to the instance. CloudFormation includes a set of helper scripts that are based on cloud-init. You call these helper scripts from the CloudFormation templates to install, configure, and update applications on EC2 instances that are in the same template. The template serves as documentation of what is required to deploy the application or applications. What is another service? The CDK is also an infrastructure as code solution. What if you are hosting your application in an ECS cluster? Let's say that there's a requirement to minimize the number of instances in use, and you need a strategy to place tasks based on the least amount of available CPU and memory. What task placement strategy would you implement? Would you choose to implement spread, binpack, distinct instance, or random? Binpack places tasks based on the least available CPU and memory to minimize the number of instances in use. Let's move on and talk about ways to manage the dependencies of the code module in the deployment package. How can you do this? In Lambda, you can use the libraries in the execution environment. What if you need to update a Lambda function with additional dependencies? Let's say you're working with a node.js. If your function depends on libraries other than the AWS SDK for JavaScript, use NPM to include them in your deployment package. If any of the libraries use native code, use an Amazon Linux environment to create the deployment package. You can add the SDK for JavaScript to the deployment package if you need a newer version or to ensure that the version doesn't change in the future. If your deployment package contains native libraries, you can build the deployment package with SAM. You can use the SAM CLI SAM build command with the use container to create your deployment package. This option builds a deployment package inside a Docker image that is compatible with the Lambda execution environment. What about dependencies for your AWS CDK application or library? Those are managed using package management tools such as PIP, Yarn, and more. Let's wrap up this lesson and talk about ways to access application configuration data. You can retrieve Secrets Manager secrets when using other AWS services that already support references to Parameter Store parameters, including EC2, ECS, Lambda, CloudFormation, CodeBuild, CodeDeploy, and other Systems Manager capabilities. Do you know how to use Parameter Store to reference Secrets Manager secrets and create a consistent and secure process for calling and using secrets and reference data in your code and configuration scripts? What if you want to use parameters from Parameter Store in your Lambda functions without using an SDK? Well, you can use the secrets Lambda extension, which retrieves parameter values and caches them for future use. You can also use AWS AppConfig, which is another capability of AWS Systems Manager to create, manage, and quickly deploy application configurations with applications hosted on EC2, Lambda, containers, mobile applications, or IoT devices. For the exam, dive deeper into the phases of the release lifecycle in different deployment strategies and how to prepare application artifacts. Let's get started with the second task statement from Domain 3, test applications in development environments.
"""

##### Lesson 3: Test applications in development environments (6m 31s)

"""
Let's get started with the second task statement from Domain 3: Test applications in development environments. In our last lesson, we covered preparing our application artifacts to be deployed. In this lesson, we will dive a bit deeper and discuss testing our deployed code using AWS services and tools. Designing a deployment solution for your application is part of building a well-architected application on AWS. And depending on your application and the underlying services (so compute, database, storage) required, you should consider each step. So how you will provision, configure, deploy, scale, and monitor. In addition to selecting the right tools, for seamless deployments you also must choose an effective deployment strategy to ensure minimal or no downtime. The deployment processes that you choose to update your application will depend on your desired balance of control, speed, cost, risk tolerance, and other factors. What services in AWS perform application deployment? Well, my first thought is AWS CodeDeploy. But there is also CloudFormation, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Container Services, Elastice Kubernetes, OpsWork, and even Amazon S3 combined with CloudFront. Each AWS deployment service supports a number of deployment strategies. What if your application relies on customizing or deploying applications on EC2 instances? What is a good strategy here? Well, you can optimize your deployments using bootstrapping and prebaking AMIs.Also, dive deeper into blue/green deployments, rolling deployments, in-place deployments, and combining deployments to ensure complete functionality. What I mean by this is using CloudFormation to manage the general infrastructure and use a more specialized deployment solution for managing application updates. We mentioned CloudFormation helper scripts in our last lesson. What would you use to retrieve metadata, install packages, start services, or create files? The answer is cfn-init. Understand which deployments take the least amount of time to complete, all at once.Which deployment method to choose if you are updating with a different runtime, server version, or major platform version, blue/green. What if your application is stopped, the latest version is installed, and then the new version is started and validated, this is in-place deployment. Let's dive deeper and talk about deploying application stack updates to existing environments, specifically deploying an AWS SAM template to a different staging environment. sam deploy deploys an AWS SAM application. But by default the SAM CLI assumes you are working with the current directory which is usually your project root directory. If you want to override and specify a specific template, what option do you use? - - template which will then have SAM deploy only that template and the local resources that it points to.Sometimes the services deployed behind an API Gateway are not set up the same as the services consuming the APIs. So to ensure your application does not stall, you can test all API responses to ensure no issues arise with consumers of the API. Do you know how to do this? What AWS services can you use to perform integration testing that uses mock endpoints? Amazon API Gateway supports mock integrations for API methods. As well as complex mocks for APIs including conditional status codes based on request headers. Since we are talking about API Gateway, how can you test applications by using development endpoints? With API Gateway, after the initial deployment, you can add more stages. For example, you can configure stage settings to enable caching, customize request throttling, configure logging, define stage variables, or attach a canary release for testing. You could also set up stage variables as configuration attributes associated with a deployment stage.And with Step Functions Local, you can test the execution paths of your state machines without actually calling integrated services by using mocked service integrations by creating a mock configuration file. This file contains the desired output of your service integrations as mocked responses and the executions which use your mocked responses to simulate an execution path as test cases.By(opens in a new tab) providing the mock configuration file to Step Functions Local, you can test service integration calls by running state machines that use the mocked responses specified in the test cases instead of making actual service integration calls.Diving deeper into testing, ensure you understand software best practices. A typical development/deployment workflow would be to have development, beta, and production environments. I always include a test environment too. But the main point is that with different environments, you are going to have different versions of your applications as well as your Lambda functions deployed to these environments. And by versioning our Lambda functions, we can better manage our in-production function code in Lambda and publish one or more versions of your Lambda function. Let's assume that version 3 is our Prod version. We have identified a change that needs to be made in our code. We would then make the updates to $Latest and publish a new version. This new version could initially be in our dev environment. And we could do some testing on it in dev, move it to beta, test some more, and then finally move it out to our prod environment. So how do versions differ from aliases in Lambda? You can create aliases for each of your Lambda function versions. One key difference between aliases and functions is that you can change aliases to point to different versions of your functions. Think about the power at your hands with that capability! If you have a prod alias, for example, you can change that alias to point to a different version of your function. That function then becomes your prod function just by pointing the prod alias to it. The way it works is that, remember, all Lambda functions need an event source, whether it be an S3 bucket, an API, a DynamoDB table, or any other event source. Let's say that our event source is an S3 bucket. You identify the Lambda function ARN that S3 can invoke, for example, if an invocation uploads a file to S3 trigger and that triggers a Lambda function. Remember our Lambda function versions are immutable! So every time we promote a version to prod, we have to go to S3 and enter the new ARN. So, how can we abstract the process of promoting Lambda functions, so that we don't have to change our invocation settings in S3 every time? Well, we can use aliases. In S3, we can enter the alias ARN for our prod alias. And if we have a new version for our Lambda function that we want to be our prod version, then we can change our prod alias in Lambda to point to the new version. The configuration in S3 never has to be touched. Prod will always be prod. Whatever function we point our prod alias to will be our prod function.Using Lambda function versions and aliases can help to simplify and streamline our function deployment process. The easier and more flexible this process, the less prone to error it becomes. AWS provides a number of tools to simplify and automate the provisioning of infrastructure and deployment of applications; each deployment service offers different capabilities for managing applications. To build a successful deployment architecture, evaluate the available features of each service against the needs of your application and your organization.Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 3: Automate deployment testing.
"""

##### Lesson 4: Automate deployment testing (8m 54s)

"""
Welcome back. Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 3: Automate deployment testing. In our last lesson we discussed deployment methods and testing, but this task statement is focused on automating the deployment testing. AWS provides code services to create the foundation of a repeatable application, infrastructure, and configuration deployment process. Let's pause here briefly and talk about fundamentals. There is configuration as code and also infrastructure as code. We have talked about CloudFormation a few times already and that is our infrastructure as code. Ensure you have depth into stacks, change sets, permissions, the template structure, and so on. Sometimes though you may have configuration tasks that may be handled better with Chef or Puppet and OpsWorks would be helpful here. Ensure you also have depth in OpsWorks and Elastic Beanstalk too and their deployment best practices. Here is a question to consider. What if you designed an application with multiple Lambda functions and you deployed that application with AWS SAM. But now you need to manage the deployment of the functions and you choose to use and add CodeDeploy to shift incoming traffic to the new version every 15 minutes until all traffic is shifted to the latest application version. In this scenario, what do you need to do to properly deploy the functions? Would you choose an immutable deployment, all-at-once, canary, or linear deployment? A few keywords for this question are Lambda functions, SAM, CodeDeploy, and new version every 15 minutes. Let's break it down. We are using CodeDeploy and it is a service that automates application deployments to EC2 instances, on premises servers, Lambda functions, or ECS. And we know that with Lambda deployments, the configuration specifies the way traffic is shifted to new versions. So, we have to know how each deployment works. The correct answer is Linear deployment because it shifts traffic in equal increments with an equal number of minutes between each increment. Canary shifts in two increments. All-at-once shifts all at once, and immutable is not applicable for Lambda.To(opens in a new tab) make local development and testing of Lambda functions easier, you can generate and customize event payloads for a number of AWS services like API Gateway, CloudFormation, S3, and so on. Ensure you understand how your Lambda function receives its payload. API gateway maps requests to a JSON object and that JSON object becomes the payload sent to Lambda. So how do we create test events for your applications? You could use API Gateway to create a REST API and a resource, define one method on the resource, and then create a Lambda function that backs the method. This will ensure when you call the API through an HTTP endpoint, API Gateway will invoke the Lambda function. You could also use API Gateway with Lambda to provide advanced capabilities such as, full request passthrough, catch-all methods, and catch-all resources. You can create a web API with an HTTP endpoint for your Lambda function by using Amazon API Gateway which provides tools for creating and documenting web APIs that route HTTP requests to Lambda functions. Differentiating the API environments minimizes the risk of use of the API when developing or testing in the production environment. This is different from managing the dev, test, stage, deploy cycle of the API itself. There are several options to provide differentiated staging and production environments. Staging restricts access based on rate limits or methods with single endpoint or using a separate API service for each environmentAPI Gateway APIs are comprised of stages, resources, methods, and integrations. To deploy an API, you create a deployment and associate it with a stage. A stage is a snapshot of the API or named reference to a deployment. Resources in your API define one or more methods, such as GET or POST. Methods have an integration that routes requests to a Lambda function or another integration type. You can define each resource and method individually, or use special resource and method types to match all requests that fit a pattern. A proxy resource catches all paths beneath a resource. The ANY method catches all HTTP methods. What if you need to ensure that API Gateway passes client-submitted method requests to the backend without intervention from the gateway after the API method is set. Would you use HTTP_PROXY, AWS_PROXY, or HTTP? You can integrate an API method in your API Gateway with a custom HTTP endpoint of your application in two ways: HTTP proxy integration and HTTP custom integration. Deploying the code in a repeatable fashion while reducing manual error requires automating the entire release process. Ensure you understand how to use Code Pipeline to automate releases across different environments and across multiple accounts. In an earlier lesson we talked about implementing infrastructure as code templates with SAM templates and CloudFormation templates, but now we are diving deeper and using them for automation.What about automating software testing (for example, unit testing and mock testing)? Well, you can create a test event in Lambda. And for serverless applications, as they scale, creating and implementing automated tests is essential for real-time or fast feedback on the current state of your application. What about creating application environments that use approved versions for integration testing. Let's dive deeper into container image tags, AWS Amplify branches, and AWS Copilot. Why would you tag your images in ECR? You could tag your development Docker images for a dev repo and production images in a prod repo. You could also use tags to group repos together for development teams. And you can use IAM policies to secure access for pushes or pulls.What about AWS Amplify? Well, it is a set of tools and features that enable frontend web and mobile developers to build full-stack applications on AWS. Amplify hosting is a git-based workflow with continuous deployment and Amplify studio is a visual development environment for full stack web and mobile applications. What are some key words for Amplify hosting? Well, I think of deploying serverless backends with GraphQL/REST APIs, authentication, analytics, and storage too. Updates are deployed on every code commit.With AWS Copilot you can deploy and operate applications packaged in containers on ECS directly from the source code. You are able to deploy through an AWS CodePipeline pipeline across multiple environments, accounts, or Regions, all of which can be managed within the CLI. Moving on, what are the branches and actions in the continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) workflow? Well, the code is submitted on one end, tested over stages, source, build test, staging, and production, and then deployed. Ensure you know each stage. And dive deeper in CodePipeline. We will dive deeper into this in the next lesson. But understand how a pipeline helps to automate steps in your software delivery process, such as initiating automatic builds and then deploying to Amazon EC2 instances. In an earlier lesson, we mentioned that Step Functions can also be used to orchestrate workflows, and can handle nested workflow logic, errors, and retries. Well, you can use CodePipeline to orchestrate each step in your release process. Each stage of the CI/CD pipeline is structured as a logical unit in the delivery process. Ensure you know how to integrate and configure other AWS services into CodePipeline to complete your software delivery pipeline. How do you deploy API resources to various environments in AWS? Dive deeper into using cross-account IAM assume role to deploy serverless API code into pre-production and production environments. For example, how would you deploy Lambda APIs across different AWS accounts and environments? Well, we obviously need permissions, so, IAM to assume a role for the corresponding steps to execute and deploy to pre production. The steps in CodePipeline are commit, build, and deploy stages. You could build a CloudFormation template in the Build stage that saves that template stack to S3. In the deploy stage, you could have the CloudFormation template deploy the code from S3 containing the application API endpoints using API Gateway. And then in the final stage, deploy the application code changes to the production environment by assuming the STS IAM production role. What roles would you need to create in IAM? A cross account role, a read/write policy for S3, and policy to access the KMS keys too in the production account. You would also need a development role for CloudFormation as well as the Lambda function service invocation policy, API gateway invocation policy, and so on.Let's get started with the fourth task statement from Domain 3: Deploy code by using AWS CI/CD services.
"""

##### Lesson 5: Deploy code using AWS CI/CD services (6m 54s)

"""
Let's get started with the fourth task statement from domain 3, deploy code using AWS CI/CD services. In our last lesson, we discussed automating the deployment testing. For this task statement, we will dive into specific AWS services for CI/CD. What pillar can you use to dive deeper into CI/CD in AWS? The operational excellence pillar. We mentioned IAC in our last lesson, and this is key to automate the process and lifecycle management for an application in its environment. Every step can be programmed and managed as source code. Let's cover a few fundamentals. CI/CD is a software process to push code into a central repository such as GitHub. Every code push triggers a build followed by running tests. So what is the main goal of CI/CD? Well, it is to define issues at early stages, improve the code quality, reduce the validation time, and release updates. Each stage of this pipeline is a logical unit that validates the code as the code progresses through the pipeline. The code is improved and continues to be verified. For the exam, ensure you know the complete set of the AWS CI/CD tools and how they integrate with other AWS services, such as SAM, Lambda, S3, CloudFormation, AWS AppConfig, and Secrets Manager. Also dive deeper into AWS CodePipeline, CodeArtifact, CodeBuild, CodeDeploy, the Amazon Elastic Container Registry, AWS Copilot, AWS Cloud Development Kit, AWS Amplify, X-Ray, and the AWS CloudShell. Dive deeper into using CodePipeline to orchestrate workflows and deploy code to different environments. Again, know the different deployment strategies in general, such as blue/green, canary, rolling, and more. For general deployment strategies, what deployment method would you use to ensure no downtime or degradation and that the compute resources maintain full capacity during deployments for a single Docker container hosted in Elastic Beanstalk. All at once, rolling, rolling with additional batch, immutable, blue/green? I would choose rolling with additional batch and immutable together. Before we dive deeper into CodeDeploy, ensure you understand how you deploy your API Gateway and continue to deploy it to different stages as the versions change. Dive deeper into this deployment and using canary release. You can also use existing runtime configurations to create dynamic deployments and use staging variables from API Gateway and Lambda functions. Let's dive deeper into CodeDeploy deployments, ensure you know the predefined deployment configurations for CodeDeploy. What if your current application deployment process is tedious and you are asked to use CodeDeploy as a new deployment service? Ensure you know the deployment configurations and types for EC2 and on premises. CodeDeploy supports in place and blue/green deployments for EC2 and for on premises. How does your traffic shift if your current application needs to deploy to ECS using CloudFormation, blue/green deployments? Well, you can shift your traffic using canary, linear or all at once. Do you know the deployment configurations for ECS deployments? Ensure you have this depth. What about Lambda and deployment configurations? Here's another question. What if your organization has several AWS accounts for staging, testing, and production? As the developer, you need to effectively manage updates to a CloudFormation template for your application. How do you manage the updates across all the AWS accounts with the least effort? You can update the stacks for the multiple AWS accounts using CloudFormation stack sets. Switching it up just a bit, what if you were tasked to set up a serverless architecture using Lambda, API Gateway, and DynamoDB and a single stack and you have to locally build, test, debug, and deploy your serverless application? Would you choose Elastic Beanstalk, CloudFormation, or SAM? Well, SAM is an extension of CloudFormation, so you get all of that reliable deployment capabilities, but with SAM, you can also define resources using CloudFormation in your SAM template and use AWS tools for building serverless applications. Also for the exam, know how to use labels and branches for version and release management. In Systems Manager, there are capabilities to help manage your applications. Under the Parameter Store, there are parameter labels and parameter versions. There is also application manager to troubleshoot and AWS AppConfig to create, manage, and deploy application configurations. Also know how to use stage variables to pass configuration parameters to Lambda functions. What if you need to reuse the same Lambda function for multiple stages in your API but the function should read data from a different DynamoDB table, depending on which stage is being called? You would use your mapping templates and the stage variable to pass the table name to Lambda. For deployments, know which services automate the rotation of certificates such as AWS Certificate Manager and for credentials, Secrets Manager and KMS automates that rotation. But Parameter Store and IAM database authentication do not. Let's get started with the fifth walkthrough question for domain 3.
"""

##### Additional resources:

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/userguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/repositories.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/pull-requests.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/commits.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codebuild/latest/userguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codebuild/latest/userguide/build-spec-ref.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codestar/latest/userguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/deployment-steps.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/deployments-rollback-and-redeploy.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/how-to-test-method.html

#### Practice Questions Walkthrough (25m)

### DOMAIN 4

#### Review (45m)

##### Lesson 1: Domain 4 introduction (2m 58s)

"""
Welcome back, let's get started with Domain 4, troubleshooting and optimization. This domain covers 24% of the exam content, so you can expect about 15 questions.In(opens in a new tab) the previous lessons, we have covered development, security, and deployment. And to maintain operational excellence, you must regularly evaluate and prioritize improvements, but you must also monitor your performance to identify degradation and remediate quickly. You must ensure you define, capture, and analyze metrics, logs, and traces to gain visibility into your workload events so you can take appropriate actions. AWS provides a number of services and tools for observability and monitoring. AWS CloudTrail, Amazon CloudWatch, AWS X-Ray, Amazon Managed Grafana, Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, Amazon OpenSearch, and also EventBridge, State Manager, SNS, and more. Domain 4: Troubleshooting and Optimization is broken into 3 task statements that we will discuss over the next few lessons. Task statement 4.1: Assist in a root cause analysis. Task Statement 4.2: Instrument code for observability. Task Statement 4.3: Optimize applications by using AWS services and features.For the first task statement, you will dive deeper into root cause analysis to troubleshoot issues. Specifically, debugging code to identify defects, interpreting application metrics, logs, and traces, querying logs to find relevant data, implementing custom metrics (for example, CloudWatch embedded metric format [EMF]), reviewing application health by using dashboards and insights, and troubleshooting deployment failures by using service output logsFor the second task statement, you will dive deeper into implementing code that emits custom metrics, adding annotations for tracing services, implementing notification alerts for specific actions, implementing tracing by using AWS services and tools, and implementing an effective logging strategy to record application behavior and state.For the third task statement, you will dive deeper into profiling application performance, determining minimum memory and compute power for an application, using subscription filter policies to optimize messaging, and caching content based on request headers.Over the next several videos in this module I will address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful.Refer to the exam guide and scan here for a link to download and follow along.Let's get started with the first statement task from Domain 4, Assist in root cause analysis and start to evaluate your readiness for the exam in the next video.
"""

##### Lesson 2: Assist in root cause analysis (7m 12s)

"""
Let's begin with the first task statement from domain four, assist in a root cause analysis. Root cause analysis is critical to troubleshooting, especially with distributed services. But first, you must know what application behavioral data, metrics, logs, and traces to track and have a monitoring system in place. In AWS, you monitor your resources to ensure they are performing in AWS using a monitoring and observability service to record key performance indicators or KPIs. Then that data can help to identify which components are impacting performance or efficiency. You can build alarms and notifications to proactively and automatically address performance-related issues. These metrics can also be used with incidents response to see what metrics were helpful in identifying the root cause and what metrics could have helped that are not being tracked but should be. This process adds visibility into performance, and you can go further and create dashboards. So what AWS monitoring services would you use? How do you monitor the full application performance to verify your users are getting amazing performance? AWS X-Ray helps to debug distributed applications built with microservices and understand how the underlying services are performing to identify and troubleshoot the root cause of issues or errors. How do you monitor your API endpoints? Dive deeper into CloudWatch, specifically CloudWatch Synthetics. What about your end-to-end view of your application? Check out CloudWatch ServiceLens. For the exam, ensure you know languages for log queries and can debug code to identify defects and interpreting application metrics, logs, and traces. CloudWatch Logs Insights help to search and analyze your logs in CloudWatch Logs. Let's step back to X-Ray and talk about another scenario question. You have a new requirement to properly trace the calls that your application sends to an external HTTP web API, and also any SQL database queries using the X-Ray console for your application that is hosted in Elastic Beanstalk. What do you do? The Elastic Beanstalk environment provides a configuration option that, once enabled, runs the daemon automatically. For a bit more on X-Ray, understand how to use filter expressions to find traces related to specific paths or users, IAM to grant permissions to users, resources, and policies, a user data script to install the X-Ray daemon, and how to trace the request in X-Ray to create visualization. Building on that, understand how X-Ray service maps can help to trace views and interpret trace details, groups, and rules. How do you troubleshoot deployment failures by using service output logs? If you are using CodeDeploy for EC2 instances or on-premises servers, you can view your CodeDeploy deployment details to see if maybe the CodeDeploy agent failed to start on premises, or maybe a deployment lifecycle for a fail before block traffic. What if you add a newly tagged instance in your deployment group? Would CodeDeploy automatically deploy this newly tagged instance? No, you must create a new deployment in the deployment group. What would be the cause of a failed deployment with Lambda? Do you know how to troubleshoot the alias of a Lambda function that might reference two different versions of the function? Dive deeper and understand the metrics provided by different AWS services that integrate with CloudWatch. For example, RDS provides metrics in real time for the database instance operating system. You can view the metrics using the RDS console or consume the enhanced monitoring JSON output from CloudWatch Logs. For this exam, ensure you know what metrics to use to troubleshoot. For example, if you have an API Gateway with a Lambda proxy integration that is taking longer than expected to complete its processing, what metrics in CloudWatch do you track to monitor the responsiveness of your API calls and the Lambda function? Cache miscount, cache hit count, integration latency, latency, or count? I would check the integration latency and latency metrics. What is another monitoring feature in AWS? What about VPC flow logs? Let's move on and talk about visibility. What AWS services help to visualize your data? What if you were tasked to create a single shared dashboard in CloudWatch to add more visibility to the monitoring of your applications? Currently, you have five different applications that need to be monitored and shared in one dashboard. Do you create a custom CloudWatch namespace for each application with a unique metric name, or set up a custom CloudWatch dimension with a unique metric name for each application? Well, there is no default namespace, so you must specify a namespace when you create a metric that you want to publish to CloudWatch. Let's dive a bit deeper here. What could you use to instruct CloudWatch Logs to automatically extract metric values embedded in structured log events? The answer is CloudWatch embedded metric format. But what is the benefit? Well, it can help you generate actionable custom metrics from ephemeral resources such as Lambda functions and containers. So not only does this help visualize an alarm on the metrics, but it adds real-time incident detection. For this exam, dive deeper into root cause analysis. What AWS services can help with log analytics? A few are OpenSearch, Athena, and Kinesis. Also, know where to store log data, what to use for real-time analysis, and what services integrate to securely ingest, analyze, and visualize your data for all sources. Check out other AWS services that we may not have mentioned such as Data Firehose, Managed Streaming for Kafka, IoT, KMS, Cognito, IAM, and CloudWatch Logs, as well as Amazon CodeGuru to help provide recommendations to improve your code. Let's get started with the second task statement from domain four, instrument code for observability.
"""

##### Lesson 3: Instrument code for observability (4m 02s)

"""
Welcome back! Let's get started with the second task statement from Domain 4: instrument code for observability. This task statement covers having enough code instrumented to gather metrics for observability. Back to fundamentals, instrumentation refers to the measure of a product and in this case, your code's performance to write trace information and diagnose errors. Instrumentation can also feed data into operational dashboards and add real-time metrics for more visibility. Understanding multi-layered architectures and distributed systems requires more than traditional logs and infrastructure metrics. Ensure you know how to add centralized and structured logging to standardize your application logging for operational information about the state of your workload which includes user behavior, system state, anomalous events, and so on. Having structured logging libraries ensures configurable logging levels, API consistency, common output formats, and using logging utilities from Lambda Powertools can simplify and enhance your application logging. CloudWatch Logs Insights can help to find Lambda performance data from the default log events. Let's also mention traces for serverless architectures which we will dive deeper into in just a few minutes, but it is fundamental to have distributed tracing in distributed systems. What is an example or how monitoring and observability help? Let's say you have an application that uses X-Ray and it generates thousands of trace data each hour. You decide to use a filter expression to limit the results based on your custom attributes. How would you refactor the application to filter the results in the X-Ray console? You can include custom attributes as new segment fields in the segment document or add the custom attributes as annotations in your segment document. For advanced tracing, you can drill down the traces to individual requests or use filter expressions. Or another example is that you notice that your application metrics related to cache hits and miss with your API Gateway and Lambda are not populating on your CloudWatch dashboard. This would alert you that you are not monitoring your API executions, adding a wider view of that application performance. Ensure you know which AWS services and tools can help to implement tracing. Earlier in this lesson, I mentioned how important distributed tracing is for distributed systems. What AWS service could you use to ensure your serverless applications have the same principles of deployment, change, and release management as your traditional workloads. Active tracing with X-Ray provides distributed tracing capabilities and visual service maps for faster troubleshooting while identifying degradation, anomalies, and latency. What if you are hosting a web application in an EC2 instance and you use the AWS CDK to communicate with the DynamoDB table, S3 bucket, and other AWS resources. You must ensure that all API calls to your AWS resources are logged and stored according to your compliance requirements. What AWS service would you use? Definitely AWS CloudTrail. Here is another question, what if you have instrumented an application to collect all data about the request that your application serves. You have received a new requirement to develop a custom debug tool that will allow views of full traces of the application without using a console. What AWS service could help? X-Ray can compile and process segment documents to generate trace summaries and full traces that you can query and uses that information to generate referred segments that are added to the full trace. Inferred segments represent downstream services and resources in the service map. And remember we talked about X-Ray's service map which can show information about your API and all of its downstream services. Ensure you can also implement notification alerts for specific actions. How do you configure notification about quota limits or deployment completions? CloudWatch alarms can notify you when you are approaching a quota value threshold which can be saved in CloudTrail. What if you need an automation to alert you via email when you have reached a defined percentage of your WorkSpaces quota? You could use Lambda to gather the total number of WorkSpaces deployed, which will send an SNS emails when the quota is breached, and the Lambda function could trigger an EventBridge Rule to delete WorkSpaces. As well as received notification when you subscribe to events in CodeBuild, CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline, using AWS CodeStar notifications. Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 4: Optimize applications by using AWS services and features.
"""

##### Lesson 4: Optimize applications by using AWS services (5m 48s)

"""
Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 4: Optimize applications by using AWS services. This task statement covers optimizing your application using AWS services and features, which we have talked about throughout this course. As developers, we are always looking for solutions to improve application performance and gain visibility, and you can use application profiling solutions to help with the resources, baselining application performance, and visualizing in real time using dashboards, maps, and more. What AWS service can help profile your application? Amazon CodeGuru, and it also provides different visualizations of profiling data to help identify what code is running, how much time is consumed, and performance improvements. How can you determine minimum memory and compute power for an application? We've talked about this in an earlier lesson. You can manually run tests, but you can also use the AWS Lambda Power Tuning tool to automate this process and graph those results. What AWS service could you use to process large amounts of data? Amazon EMR is a great choice, and you have options for moving data to S3. AWS Compute Optimizer is another service to help identify the optimal resource configurations for EC2 instance types, EBS volume configurations, and Lambda function memory sizes. What AWS service helps you to use subscription filter policies to optimize messaging? Let's say you need to use the Message Filter feature of SNS to enable subscribers to an SNS topic to receive only a subset of topic messages. Your application provides quotes for insurance, and it is designed that when a request for insurance is received, that request is forwarded to a series of backend systems. One system handles the sales of insurance policies and another analytics system that processes all quote requests. So what could you add to ensure the event notifications get to the right backend system? You can use a fanout message pattern using SNS and SQS to decouple the website from the backend systems. What AWS service could you use to optimize the availability and caching for your application? Well, you could use CloudFront to cache content based on request headers to separate versions of a specified object based on the header values in the viewer request. What service could you configure to add scaling to your Lambda functions? In Lambda, we can configure reserve concurrency or provisioned concurrency and burst too. Here's another question. What AWS service or feature could you add to your application that allows students to book appointments with advisors? A Lambda function and EventBridge process the data each day from DynamoDB, and the results are stored in S3. From your logging and monitoring, you notice that some of the new appointments in DynamoDB are not sent to S3. What solution do you implement? You could add DynamoDB Streams, which would capture all data or modifications to your table. What if your application is hosted in an ECS cluster that uses an RDS database, and you've noticed performance slows during requests that have the same read queries? You could add additional read replicas or ElastiCache. What if your application uses S3 behind a CloudFront distribution and has two new requirements to only allow its paying customers access with low latency? Which AWS services could you use for authentication and authorization? Lambda@Edge and Amazon Cognito can help to authenticate and authorize your paying customers' access. How do you implement direct services integrations? Dive deeper into the serverless application lens of the AWS Well-Architected Framework. Final question, how would you build a workflow for a school that wants to allow the creation of new accounts online? My initial thoughts are Lambda, Step Functions, EventBridge, API Gateway, and AppSync The initial step would be the student filling out the form, then the application validating that information and checking to see if there is an existing student with that information. If everything is valid, the backend of the application is notified to create the new account, and the new student is notified that they have successfully completed the application for a new school account. So you could have your code stored in GitHub, and maybe one starts a Steps Function state machine. Another is to perform the CREATE, READ, UPDATE, and DELETE on the DynamoDB table, along with the function to send messages with SQS or EventBridge. Then, of course, you would want to review the traces after the application has been working along with your code. You could use X-ray to review traces and Lambda to test the functionality. The goal is to optimize performance and reduce latency, optimize for cost and sustainability, optimize your resilience, and optimize your security by minimizing the attack surface. Let's get started with the seventh walkthrough question.
"""

##### Additional resources:

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/using-cfn-updating-stacks.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opsworks/latest/userguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/sam-specification-template-anatomy.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-deploying.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/welcome.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/set-up-deployments.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-publish.html

#### Practice Questions Walkthrough (1h 10m)

#### AWS SimuLearn (1h)

"""
Monitoring and Troubleshooting AWS Lambda Errors

This AWS SimuLearn aligns with Domain 4 of AWS Certified Developer – Associate (DVA-C02).

In this AWS SimuLearn assignment, you review a real-world scenario. You help a fictional customer design a solution on AWS. After the design is complete, you build the proposed solution in a guided lab within a live AWS Management Console environment. You gain hands-on experience working with AWS services, using the same tools and technology that professionals use to construct AWS solutions.

How it works

AWS SimuLearn is powered by generative AI to help develop your soft skills, such as communication and problem-solving in life-like conversations with AI-generated customers. An AI quiz agent evaluates your conversation responses, and an AI helper agent, Dr. Newton, is available when you get stuck. After each solution-building conversation, you build and validate the solution in a live console environment.

This lab is part of 4 steps that you can use to prepare for your exam with confidence. To follow the 4 steps, enroll in the Exam Prep Plan: AWS Certified Developer – Associate (DVA-C02). The Exam Prep Plan includes exam-style questions, videos that review each exam domain and task statement, practice assessments, hands-on labs, flashcards, and more. The plan also includes domain-based training to refresh your AWS knowledge and skills. Some of this content might require an AWS Skill Builder subscription.
"""

### Official Practice Exam (2h 10m)

## AWS Builder Labs

### Domain 1 (Development)

- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/G3BEYRFNPS/introduction-to-aws-lambda/5PSQXY58Y7 (45m)
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/87NHV2TSKV/introduction-to-amazon-api-gateway/3S1482KMEZ (1h)
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/6DYXN7K7ZQ/lab--introduction-to-amazon-dynamodb/GZ3EU55RYJ (1h)
- AWS SimuLearn

### Domain 2 (Security)

- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/XFPX3M7HAQ/introduction-to-aws-identity-and-access-management-iam/DQJ3N5QRRU (45m)
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/QR33U9CVP8/enforcing-amazon-s3-security-policies/AVC72HKPV5 (1h)
- AWS SimuLearn

### Domain 3 (Deployment)

- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/D29H5HEJFM/introduction-to-aws-cloudformation/485ZYHEYK2 (45m)
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/CV6ZEU3NHE/working-with-amazon-elastic-container-service/X989GB8H74 (1h)
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/F88VFEECXN/lab--building-a-serverless-api/YQ9VXJTHFS (45m)

### Domain 4 (Troubleshooting)

- AWS SimuLearn
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/RNFQU4XGGZ/troubleshooting-api-gateway-with-lambda-proxy-integration/WTSRTDN7AU (1h)
- https://skillbuilder.aws/learn/3UWPW72PKU/serverless-architectures-using-amazon-cloudwatch-events-and-scheduled-events-with-aws-lambda/D2B8JXUZ9M (1h 15m)